TITLE 14 — AERONAUTICS AND SPACE
CHAPTER I — FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
SUBCHAPTER C — AIRCRAFT
PART 39 — AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVES

Source: 45 FR 60185, Sept. 11, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

---

§ 39.1 Purpose of this regulation.

The regulations in this part establish requirements for the correction of unsafe
conditions in aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers, and appliances when those
conditions exist or are likely to exist or develop in other products of the same design.

---

§ 39.3 Definition of airworthiness directives.

FAA's airworthiness directives are legally enforceable rules that apply to the
following products: aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers, and appliances.

---

§ 39.5 When does FAA issue airworthiness directives?

FAA issues an airworthiness directive addressing a product when we find that:
(a) An unsafe condition exists in the product; and
(b) The condition is likely to exist or develop in other products of the same type design.

---

§ 39.7 What is the legal effect of failing to comply with an airworthiness directive?

Anyone who operates a product that does not meet the requirements of an applicable
airworthiness directive is in violation of this section.

---

§ 39.9 What if I operate an aircraft that does not meet the requirements of an
airworthiness directive?

If the unsafe condition described in the airworthiness directive exists in your aircraft,
you violate § 39.7 of this part when you operate the aircraft, unless the airworthiness
directive specifies otherwise or unless FAA has given you an exemption from that
airworthiness directive's requirements.

---

§ 39.11 What actions do airworthiness directives require?

Airworthiness directives specify inspections you must carry out, conditions and
limitations you must comply with, and any actions you must take to resolve an unsafe
condition.

---

§ 39.13 Are airworthiness directives part of the Code of Federal Regulations?

Yes, airworthiness directives are part of the Code of Federal Regulations, but they
are not codified in the annual edition of the CFR. You can get copies of airworthiness
directives from FAA's Dynamic Regulatory System at rgl.faa.gov.

---

§ 39.15 Does an airworthiness directive apply if the product has been altered?

The requirements of an applicable airworthiness directive still apply to a product that
has been altered, unless the FAA has approved an alternative method of compliance
(AMOC) for that product.

---

§ 39.17 What must I do if a change in a product affects my ability to accomplish
the actions required by an airworthiness directive?

If a change in a product makes it impossible for you to accomplish the actions required
by an applicable airworthiness directive, you must contact the FAA for further
instructions.

---

§ 39.19 May I address the unsafe condition in a way other than that specified in
the airworthiness directive?

Yes, as the holder of a type certificate, supplemental type certificate, or Parts
Manufacturer Approval (PMA) for a product, you may request FAA to approve an
AMOC. FAA will approve your AMOC if it provides an acceptable level of safety.

---

REGULATORY SIGNIFICANCE FOR BOEING 737 MAX AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVES

Part 39 provides the legal framework for all Boeing 737 MAX ADs including:
- FAA AD 2020-05-11 (initial return-to-service requirements)
- FAA AD 2022-03-07 (enhanced AOA monitoring requirements)
- FAA AD 2024-01-02 (MCAS Software v2.0 installation requirement)

Operators of Boeing 737-8 and 737-9 aircraft are legally required to comply with
all applicable ADs under 14 CFR Part 39. Non-compliance results in the aircraft
being considered unairworthy for operation under FAA jurisdiction.
